---
title: "2018.09.17-21 ISL Chapter 2 Plan"
date: 2018-09-18T20:57:52-05:00
weight: 31
draft: false
#type: slide
#theme: white
---
{{< use-ml >}}

* Download ISL book.
* Start reading Chapter 2. Lectures will give you a basis, but the
  depth of understanding comes from reading.
* Give feedback on pace of the chapter.

## Weekly Reading 

* Introduction, pages 8-9 (pdf 22-23): premises and who should read
  the book.
* 2.1 What is Statistical Learning? Some material may be familiar from
  the video of Andrew Ng.

    * What is the difference between
    parametric and nonparametric models? 
    * What is the tradeoff between
   flexibility and interpretability? 
   * Supervised vs. Unsupervised. 
   * Regression vs Classification.
* 2.2.1: Assessing Model Accuracy (important): Mean Squared Error (MSE). Graphs showing
  _train_ vs _test_ MSE.
* 2.2.2: Bias-Variance Tradeoff
* 2.2.3: Classification. Discuss in class. K-nearest neighbors. Bayes
  decision boundary(?)
  
## Weekly Homework (due next Monday)

* Work through [Lab 2.3]({{% relref "machine-learning/isl-resources"
  %}})
* Write your own "study guide" for Lab 2.3 as discussed in class and below. 
* Chapter 2 Problems 1-10. (Do number 8 immediately after finishing
  Lab 2.3.)

## Chapter 2 Study Guide

Write a study guide, probably with a partner. 
The study guide should show how to make variations on the ideas from
section 2.3 of the book, so you become comfortable with it.

Examples:

1. Start with a square matrix full of random numbers 10-100. (2.3.1)
   Choose them uniformly (all equally likely).
2. Find the vector created by adding the first column and the second
   row. (2.3.3)
3. Write a function that returns the value in the square one row and
   two columns before the last (lower right) element in the array. (2.3.3)
4. Make a mesh grid of all possible pairs of `x = [1,5,10]` and
   `y=[2,20,40]`. (2.3.2)
5. Amusement: Look up a [cool function for 3D
   graphing](https://www.physicsforums.com/threads/cool-3-d-functions-for-graphing.140087/). One
   to try is $$f(x,y) = \frac{-1}{x^2+y^2}$$
